POINT INPUT OPERATIONS
AD-Add pts     
ED-Edit pts    
IN-INsert Pt     
FE-Field Elev   
QS-QuickShot
MC-Map Check   
AM-Append/Move 
GP-Get Pts       
SS-SideShot     
TP-ToPo input

COORDINATE GEOMETRY FUNCTIONS
LL-Line/Line   
LP-Line/Pt     
LA-Line/Arc int  
RA Road Arc     
LT-Line/arc Tan
AA-Arc/Arc Int 
PP-Pt/Pt       
OF-OFfset pt     
SA-Snap Arc     
CC-Compare Coor

CALCULATION PROCEDURES
AN-ANgle math  
TR-TRiangle    
ST-STation calc  
SO-Stake Out    
RE-REvise pts
CU-CUrve math  
AR-ARea calc   
VC-Vert.Curve    
FW-Find Window  
CT-ConTour

PT COORDINATE MODIFICATION & DRAWING
RT-Rotate/Tran 
ET-Elev.Trans. 
BA-BAlance trav. 
FP-Find Prox.

POINT DATA OUTPUT FUNCTIONS
BR-BRowse pts   
DE-Descrip Edit

POINT PROTECTION & OTHER
VE-VErsion 
PC-Protect Co. 
UC-Unprot Co.  
PE-Protect Elev  
UE-Unprot Elev 

OTHER OPERATIONS
EX-EXit  DOS   
BU-BackUp file 
RC-ReCalc tog.   
FL-FLush pts.  
NP-No_Pts


GEOMETRY FUNCTIONS
LL - Line Line intersection. Each line is defined by a starting point and
     a direction from that point number.
LP - Line point intersection.  This option finds the point of intersection
     of two lines one of which is perpendicular to the other and intersects
     the point.
LA - Line arc intersection. Finds the intersection points of a given line
     with a given arc.
LT - Line arc tangent. Finds a line tangent to a given arc and intersecting
     a given point.
AA - Arc arc intersection.  Finds intersection points of two given arcs.
PP - Point to point (inverse). Finds distance and bearing between two
     known points.
OF - Offset point. Finds the intersection of two lines that are parallel to
     two known lines. An offset distance (left or right) from each known line
     is required.
RA - Road Arc Calculation given 3 P.I.'s, Radius and road width this function
     will calculate and add 7 new pts. around the road curve.
SA - Snap Arc will compute center pt, P.C., P.T. given a tangant line and
     radius offset from the tangant line.
CC - Compare Coordinates.  Used to compare Northing and Easting point
     coordinates.  This is useful if you are working with another person's
     map and your own field data.

CALCULATION PROCEDURE
AN - Angle math. This function adds and subtracts azimuths and bearings.
     The sum total will always be less than 360.
CU - Curve calculations. This function solves for unknown variables of
     a simple curve given two of the following; radius, delta, length,
     tangent, and long chord.
TR - TRiangle computations for Right and Oblique triangles.
AR - Area Calculation.  This function calculates the area of a known point
     loop.  You may traverse curves and lines.  Three data input methods
     types can be chosen (keyboard input, disk-file input, and digitizer
     input). The Keyboard Option will output the loop to File: jobname.LNZ.
SO - Stake Out.  Used to do radial state out of given points from a given
     point Back sight to another given point. Useful for quick pt computations
ST - STation on curves.  This function will calculate and add stations points
     around a curve to the point file.  Before using STation you must have
     found the PT, PC, Center point of the curve.  You may enter the station
     increment (50,100) and the offset distance from the PC.
VC - Vertical Curve.  Finds the elevation along a vertical curve given the
     PVC, PVT, Grade#1, Grade#1, PVI elevation.
FW - Find Window.  Finds the maximum & minimum northing and easting limits
     of a range of coordinates.  Used mostly to to find display window limits
     for plotter setup parameters.
RE - REvise data in existing point records, You may revise the FROM:Pt#,
     BS:Pt#, Setup, Description, and the rod shot.  This option is used if
     many point are entered with the wrong data.
CT - ConTour is used to interpolate even contours between two points.  It will
     add point to the file.  When you make an elevation plot you can easily
     draw contours.

POINT COORDINATE MODIFICATION PROCEDURES
RT - Rotate Translate.  This function rotates points about a given point
     using a given counter clockwise rotation angle.  Also Translation of
     a point range may be accomplished simultaneously. You may accomplished
     each function without the other.  After point rotation/translation is
     complete the points are protected (negative From_pt).
ET - Elevation Translation is used to adjust elevations from one datum
     to another.  ET would most likely be used after a Get Point (GP)
     procedure of data from an adjoining job.
BA - Balance Traverse.  Balances a open/closed loop of traverse pts using the
     compass rule.  Refer to MANUAL.DOC for more data.  All traverse points
     must have the SETUP option set to YES and all consecutive traverse
     points must come from the preceding traverse point. If the closing angle
     is not in the loop then do NOT adjust the angles.  The only way to enter
     the closing angle is by adding another consecutive traverse pt with a
     distance equal to zero. For closed loops the 2nd pt entered must orintent
     the traverse, hence the 3rd point will have the 1st angle turned.  You may
     chose not to balance certain angles by entering their pt.#s as negatives.
DR - DRawing template is an automatic draw feature that will append drawing
     command blocks to a file with extension .LNZ.  The Template file name
     is DRAW.LN; all drawing templates are placed in this file and invoked
     with the DR command.
MS - Make Shape.  This is an advance function that is used to get
     coordinate pairs from the digitizer for the purpose of producing a
     shape file for the plot function.  The coordinate pairs are stored
     in a shape file in ASCII form.  This shape file is then loaded into
     an editor and Plot line drawing commands are build around the pairs
     to produce a shape that can be draw.  (See Manual for more info).
ML - Make Line is a major modular used to append drawing commands to an
     existing line file.  You must have a digitizer connected to use this
     procedure.  The draw methods employed in PC-TS will get you drawing
     with a pencil and paper and NOT on the screen.
     (The way drawing was ment to be.)
FP - Find Proximity will make a Stake-Out print out sheet of points within
     a proximity distance from the setup point and in a given pt range.

POINT DATA OUTPUT FUNCTIONS
PR - PRint points coordinates and other point info to the printer.
TA - TAg printer page. Prints a Time, date, and File name tag to the printer.
BR - Browse point.  Used to look at point data on the screen. Four points
     are displayed at once.  You may use the cursor keypad to control point
     display.  Active keys are ESC, HOME, END, PgUp, PgDw, ArrowUp ArrowDown.
TO - TOggle printer on and off.  Most functions that print data are linked to
     a printer ON/OFF variable.  If you do not want printer output then TOggle
     the printer off.  The state of this variable is displayed at the bottom
     of the screen (PRT:ON).  Printer OFF is a good state while adjusting
     Lot area sizes in conjunction with Area (AR) file input mode.
PL - PLot points using the line file.  (See manual for more info.) This
     option invokes the interpretation of a line file (user created) to
     make a plotted image of the point file.  This is a very powerful plotting
     system and will require some time and practice to understand. However
     the plot system is simple in nature so that you may make a plot for your
     very first job.  PC-TS has a automatic plot spooler built in.  To use this
     feature edit the PLOT.CFG file, making the file handle DR (DRawing file).
AO - ASCII output will create a ASCII file on the disk mainly for use as input
     to other systems.
AI - ASCII input will get coordinate and elev. data from a ASCII file.
     The file ASCII-IN.FMT has the ASCII INput format of the data file.
DX - DXf file creation.  This function will created a file that is compatible
     with AUTOCAD.  AUTOCAD can read coordinate pairs in from this file and
     you may use function of AUTOCAD to make a drawing.
DE - Description Edit will quickly allow you to edit only the description
     field of points.  Useful in conjuction with Field Cad "FC".
AS - Autocad Script will convert a line file to a script file that can be
     input into Autocad using the Script command.
[33;40mDIGITIZER FUNCTIONS::[40;36m
SD - Set Digitizer.  Use to set a sheet on the digitizing pad. Proper
     orientation of a sheet is first required so that digitized
     coordinates can be utilized.  You can orient the sheet by using grid
     on the sheet or by using two known points on the sheet.
DA - Digitizer Add. Used to add a serious of points to the point file from
     the digitizing pad.  The Set Digitizer (SD) function must have been
     used prior to using the Digitizer Add (DA) function.
DM - Digitizer Menu allows the user to setup a menu on the digitizer.
     This option is used to tell PC-TS where your menu is located.
     Also the menu values can be tested to assure proper operation.
LD - Leagal Description is a word processor system used to create legal
     documents.  It is linked to the current map on the digitizer so that
     the correct map dimensions can be easily entered into the document.

OTHER FUNCTIONS
VE - Show PC-TS Version Information Screen.
FC - Field Cad is a coded system of lines and markers that automatically
     builds line files.  The first 2 characters of a point description are
     properly coded in the field and entered into the PC-TS pt. description,
     then FC is used for Field Cad Line File conversion.
     See files MARKER.LN0,  MARKER.LN4,  MARKER.PT for Field Card Cheat Sheet.

PROTECT FUNCTIONS
PC - Protect Coordinates.  Negates From point.  A negative or zero from point
     will protect the coordinates from being modified by the dynamic system.
UC - Unprotect Coordinates.  Will set the From point positive and allow the
     coordinates to be modified by the recalculation dynamics.
PE - Protect Elevation.  Negates Rod Shot.  A negative or zero rod shot
     will protect the elevation from being modified by the dynamics system.
UE - Unprotect Elevation. Will set the rod shot positive and allow the
     elevation to be modified by the recalculation dynamics.

OTHER OPERATION
EX - EXit to MS-DOS.  You must use the EX option before you turn the computer
     off.  This is important so that MS-DOS will flush disk write buffers.
     If you turn the system off with out EXiting from PC-TS then some point
     data may be lost.
FL - FLush point data to the disk.  This option should be used frequently
     to assure that no point data is lost due to a power failure or shut
     down before the EXit option is used.
RC - ReCalculation toggle.  This is a toggle switch (ON/OFF) controlling
     recalculation after editing a point.  If you are editing many points
     then shut recalculation off, after all the points have been edited
     toggle recalc. ON(TRUE) and edit the lowest point number again so that
     recalculation will effect (update) the edited points.
BU - Back Up the point file.  This is usally done before a balance
     procedure so that the raw field data is saved
CO - COmunications parameters of the RS-232 ports are set. Also you may
     capture data from a serial device connected to a COM port.
     This option is used to collect data from the SDR data collector and
     to Down Load Coordinate Pairs back into the data collector.
SH - SHell to DOS will allow you to quick enter the DOS Command interpreter
     to do a DOS function and then EXIT back from dos to PC-TS. This command
     comes in handy for file directories and many other minipulations.
PS - Printer Setup is use to change the number of characters per inch
     printed.  The printer specific data is in an ASCII file named PRINT.CFG.
     You may modify this file for your printer; use the same file format.
DC - Data Collector is a powerfull procedure that will Transform and Convert
     Raw Comms Output data from the SDR2 Field Data Collector into PC-TS.
EE - Editor is use most often to modify ASCII files that interact with PC-TS.
     This editor uses standard Word Star command functions.  Press F1 for help.
NP - Number of Points in the point file can be set.  Used to delete unwanted
     points at the end of the file.

LEARN and PROGRAMMING OPERATIONS
LM - Learn Mode is used to programm the computer for a cogo procedure
     that is not in the PC-TS Menu.
|| - Exit Learn Mode after programming is complete.
RS - Run Script is used to Run a program that was compiled in the Learn Mode.
RF - Register Flip is used to manipulate the program registers for
     programming purposes.  Generally when writting a program, RF is the first
     option used to get all needed input data for a particular problem.
IF - IF THEN, Invokes an IF comparison for programming in the learn mode.
EL - ELSE path of IF THEN ELSE programming construct.
EI - End If, for every and all IF's there must me 1 ENDIF.
     IF statements can be nested. Also Blocks of PC-TS statments can be
     grouped when using IF statment. (see LEARN.DOC memo).
LB - Put a jump transfer label in the script file when in the Leran Mode.
JP - Jump to label, the jump can either be up or down in the script file.
SE - Settings of PC-TS system variables. May be used as 1st function in then
     Learn Mode.

POINT INPUT OPERATIONS
AD - Add points to file, Full control of point data input.
ED - Edit an existing point in the point file.
IN - Insert a point into the file. Insert will shift points down in the file.
     The From_pt and BS_pt of the shifted points are modified as required.
     Insert is used if you leave out a leg of a traverse or map boundary.
EL - Modify existing point elevation without changing the rest of the point
     data record.  If you have recorded field Delta Elevation, then use the
     letter D to switch input modes when asked for the Vertical Angles.
TP - ToPo data input.  Much like Side Shot (SS) except the rod reading is
     entered so that the elevation can be calculated.  Also you must exit
     TP to modify the FROM:Pt# and BS:Pt.  This makes the data entry faster.
SS - Side Shot.  Quick method of adding horizontal point data.  Use Side
     Shot instead of ADD. also use QS Quick Shot
MC - Map Check.  Quick method of adding horizontal point data from a boundary
     map.  The from point and back sited point will automatically advance.
     You may enter the distance with the letter 'H' to Hold the From point.
AM - Append Move.  To append blank point data to the point file and also
     to move a block of existing points in the point file.  You may append
     points so that a group of points will get numbered as desired.
     Note: Do not append large blocks of blank points with no intention
     of using them.
GP - Get Points. To get a range of data points from another point file
     and append these points to the current logged file.
QS - QuickShot is like Side Shot except you can not control then FROM:pt#
     and the BS:Pt#.

